Aditya Birla Health Insurance
Company Ltd.
(A part of Aditya Birla Capital Ltd.)

ABHI Protect Add - on - Policy Terms and Conditions
I. PREAMBLE
The Add-on covers specified herein can only be purchased along with the Base Policy and cannot be bought in isolation or as a separate product.
This Policy has been issued on the basis of the Disclosure to Information Norm, including the information and declarations provided by You in
respect of the Insured Persons in the Proposal Form and any other information or details submitted in relation to the Proposal Form.
This Policy is a contract of insurance between You and Us which is subject to the receipt and acceptance of premium in full by Us in respect of the
Insured Persons, the terms, conditions, exclusions stated in this Policy for the Add-on covers below and also the terms, conditions, exclusions and
applicable endorsements of the Base Policy shall also be applied to ABHI Protect Add-on as specified in Policy Schedule / Product Benefit Table
of this Policy.
The Add-on cover shall be available only if the same is opted and specifically mentioned in the Policy Schedule.

If any claim arising as a result of an Injury or Illness that occurs during the Policy Period becomes payable, then We shall pay the Benefits specified
under this Policy in accordance with the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy and the Base Policy.
II. DEFINITIONS
A.

Standard Definitions
1. Accident: Means sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and violent means.
2. AYUSH Day Care Centre: Means and includes Community Health Centre(CHC), Primary Health Centre (PHC), Dispensary, Clinic,
Polyclinic or any such health centre which is registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable and having facilities for carrying
out treatment procedures and medical or surgical/para-surgical interventions or both under the supervision of registered AYUSH
Medical Practitioner (s) on day care basis without in-patient services and must comply with all the following criterion:
i. Having qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) in charge;
ii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation theatre where surgical procedures are to be
carried out;
iii. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance company’s authorized representative.
3. AYUSH Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein medical/surgical/para-surgical treatment procedures and interventions are carried out
by AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) comprising of any of the following:
a. Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital; or
b. Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH College recognized by the Central Government/Central Council of Indian Medicine/Central
Council for Homeopathy; or
c. AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located with in-patient healthcare facility of any recognized system of medicine, registered with
the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the supervision of a qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner and
must comply with all the following criterion:
i. Having at least 5 in-patient beds;
ii. Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round the clock;
iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation
theatre where surgical procedures are
to be carried out;
iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance company's authorized representative
4. Cashless facility: Means a facility extended by the insurer to the insured where the payments, of the costs of treatment undergone by
the insured in accordance with the policy terms and conditions, are directly made to the network provider by the insurer to the extent
pre-authorization is approved.
5. Condition Precedent: Means a policy term or condition upon which the Insurer's liability under the policy is conditional upon.
6. Congenital Anomaly: Means a condition which is present since birth, and which is abnormal with reference to form, structure or
position.
i. Internal Congenital Anomaly: Congenital anomaly which is not in the visible and accessible parts of the body.
ii. External Congenital Anomaly: Congenital anomaly which is in the visible and accessible parts of the body
7. Cumulative Bonus (No Claim Bonus): Any increase or addition in the Sum Insured granted by the insurer without an associated
increase in premium.
8. Day Care Treatment: Medical treatment, and/or surgical procedure which is:
i. undertaken under General or Local Anaesthesia in a hospital/day care centre in less than 24 hrs because of technological
advancement, and

ABHI Protect Add-on, Product UIN: ADIHLIA22218V012122

Same Add-on cover is allowed to be taken with multiple Base Policies, subject to Underwriting.

ii.

which which would have otherwise required hospitalization of more than 24 hours

Treatment normally taken on an out-patient basis is not included in the scope of this definition
9. Day Care Centre: Any institution established for day care treatment of illness and/or injuries or a medical setup with a hospital and
which has been registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under supervision of a registered and qualified medical
practitioner AND must comply with all minimum criterion as under –
i. has qualified nursing staff under its employment;
ii. has qualified medical practitioner/s in charge;
iii. has fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out;
iv. maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the insurance company’s authorized
ized personnel.
10. Disclosure to information norm: The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the event
of misrepresentation, mis-description or non- disclosure of any material fact
11. Domiciliary Hospitalization: means medical treatment for an illness/disease/injury which in the normal course would require care and
treatment at a hospital but is actually taken while confined at home under any of the following circumstances:
a) the condition of the patient is such that he/she is not in a condition to be removed to a hospital, or
b) the patient takes treatment at home on account of non-availability of room in a hospital.
12. Emergency Care: Means management for an illness or injury which results in symptoms which occur suddenly and unexpectedly, and
requires immediate care by a medical practitioner to prevent death or serious long term impairment of the insured person’s health.

14. Hospital: Any institution established for in-patient care and day care treatment of illness and/or injuries and which has been registered
as a hospital with the local authorities under Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act 2010 or under enactments
specified under the Schedule of Section 56(1) and the said act Or complies with all minimum criteria as under: has qualified nursing
staff under its employment round the clock;
i. has at least 10 in-patient beds in towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and at least 15 in-patient beds in all other
places;
ii. has qualified medical practitioner(s) in charge round the clock;
iii. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out;
iv. maintains daily records of patients and makes these accessible to the insurance company’s authorized personnel
15. Hospitalization: Means admission in a Hospital for a minimum period of 24 consecutive ‘In-patient Care’ hours except for specified
procedures/ treatments, where such admission could be for a period of less than 24 consecutive hours.
16. Illness: A sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of normal physiological function and requires
medical treatment
i. Acute condition - Acute condition is a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which aims to return
the person to his or her state of health immediately before suffering the disease/ illness/ injury which leads to full recovery
ii. Chronic condition - A chronic condition is defined as a disease, illness, or injury that has one or mor e of the following
characteristics:
(a) it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-ups, and /or tests
(b) it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
(c) it requires rehabilitation for the patient or for the patient to be specially trained to cope with it
(d) it continues indefinitely
(e) it recurs or is likely to recur
17. Injury: Means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness or disease solely and directly caused by external, violent, visible and
evident means which is verified and certified b y a Medical Practitioner.
18. Inpatient Care: Means treatment for which the insured person has to stay in a hospital for more than 24 hours for a covered event.
19. Intensive Care Unit (ICU): Means an identified section, ward or wing of a hospital which is under the constant supervision of a
dedicated medical practitioner(s), and which is specially equipped for the continuous monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a
critical condition, or require life support facilities and where the level of care and supervision is considerably more sophisticated and
intensive than in the ordinary and other wards.
20. ICU Charges: Means the amount charged by a Hospital towards ICU expenses which shall include the expenses for ICU bed, general
medical support services provided to any ICU patient including monitoring devices, critical care nursing and intensivist charges.
21. Medical Advice: Means any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner including the issuance of any prescription or follow-up
prescription.
22. Medical Expenses: Means those expenses that an Insured Person has necessarily and actually incurred for medical treatment on
account of Illness or Accident on the advice of a Medical Practitioner, as long as these are no more than would have been payable if the
Insured Person had not been insured and no more than other hospitals or doctors in the same locality would have charged for the same
medical treatment.
23. Medical Practitioner: Means a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical Council of any State or Medical Council of India
or Council for Indian Medicine or for Homeopathy set up by the Government of India or a State Government and is thereby entitled to
practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting within its scope and jurisdiction of license.
24. Migration: Means the right accorded to health insurance policyholders (including all members under family cover and members of group
health insurance policy), to transfer the credit gained for pre-existing conditions and time bound exclusions, with the same insurer.

ABHI Protect Add-on, Product UIN: ADIHLIA22218V012122

13. Grace Period: Means the specified period of time immediately following the premium due date during which a payment can be made to
renew or continue a policy in force without loss of continuity benefits such as waiting periods and coverage of pre-existing diseases.
Coverage is not available for the period for which no premium is received

25. Medically Necessary Treatment: Medically necessary treatment means any treatment, tests, medication, or stay in hospital or part of a
stay in hospital which:
i. is required for the medical management of the illness or injury suff ered by the insured;
ii. must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate medical care in scope, duration, or intensity;
iii. must have been prescribed by a medical practitioner;
iv. must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical practice or by the medical community in India.
26. Network Provider: Means hospitals or health care providers enlisted by an insurer, TPA or jointly by an Insurer and TPA to provide
medical services to an insured by a cashless facility.
27. Non- Network Provider: Means any hospital, day care centre or other provider that is not part of the network.
28. Notification of Claim: Means the process of intimating a claim to the insurer or TPA through any of the recognized modes of
communication.
29. OPD treatment: Means the one in which the Insured visits a clinic / hospital or associated facility like a consultation room for diagnosis
and treatment based on the advice of a Medical Practitioner. The Insured is not admitted as a day care or in-patient.
30. Pre-Existing Disease: Means any condition, ailment, injury or disease:
i. That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the eff ective date of the policy issued by the insurer or its
reinstatement
Or
ii. For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or receiv ed from, a physician within 48 months prior to the effective
date of the policy issued by the insurer or it reinstatement.
31. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses: Means medical expenses incur red during predefined number of days preceding the

32. Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses: Means medical expenses incurred during predefined number of days immediately after the
insured person is discharged from the hospital provided that:
i. Such Medical Expenses are for the same condition for which the insured person’s hospitalization was required, and
ii. The inpatient hospitalization claim for such hospitalization is admissible by the insurance company.
33. Portability: Means the right accorded to individual health insurance policyholders (including all members under family cover), to transfer
the credit gained for pre-existing conditions and time bound exclusions, from one insurer to another insurer.
34. Qualified Nurse: Means a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of India or the Nursing Council of any state in
India.
35. Reasonable and Customary Charges: Means the charges for services or supplies, which are the standard charges for the specific
provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the geographical area for identical or similar services, taking into account the
nature of the illness / injury involved.
36. Renewal: Means the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual consent with a provision of grace period for
treating the renewal continuous for the purpose of gaining credit for pre-existing diseases, time-bound exclusions and for all waiting
periods
37. Room Rent: Means the amount charged by a Hospital towards Room and Boarding expenses and shall include the associated medical
expenses.
38. Surgery or Surgical Procedure: Means manual and / or operative procedure (s) required for treatment of an illness or injury, correction
of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief from suffering and prolongation of life, performed in a hospital or day
care centre by a medical practitioner.
39. Unproven/Experimental treatment: The treatment including drug experimental therapy which is not based on established Medical
Practice in India, is treatment experimental or unproven.
B. Specific Definition
40. Age or Aged: Shall mean the completed age as on last birthday, and which means completed years as at the Policy Start date.
41. Annexure: A document attached and marked as Annexure to this Policy.
42. Base Policy: A retail indemnity health insurance issued by Us including its terms and conditions, any Annexure thereto and the Policy
Schedule (as amended from time to time), the information statements in the proposal form and the Policy wording (including
endorsements, if any) and to which this Add-on cover is attached.
43. Benefit: Any benefit shown in the Policy Schedule/ Product Benefit Table.
44. Expiry Date: Date on which this Add-on expires as specified in the Policy Schedule.
45. Family Floater Policy: A policy named as a Family Floater Policy in the Policy Schedule under Which the family Members named as
Insured Persons in the Policy Schedule are covered. The relationships covered in a Family Floater Policy are as follows:
i) Self
ii) legally married spouse as long as they continue to be married
iii) Dependent Children (up to 4) (i.e. natural or legally adopted) between the age 3 months to 25 years

ABHI Protect Add-on, Product UIN: ADIHLIA22218V012122

hospitalization of the Insured Person, provided that:
i. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person’s Hospitalization was required, and
ii. The In-patient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance Company.

46. Individual Policy: Policy named as an Individual Policy in the Policy Schedule or Certificate of Insurance under which one or more
persons are covered as Insured Persons.
47. Insured Person: Person(s) named in the Policy Schedule who is/are covered under this Policy and in respect of whom the appropriate
premium has been received.
48. Policy: Policy document containing the terms and conditions, the Proposal Form, Policy Schedule, Add-On Benefits as specified her ein
and any Annexures which form a part of this and the Base Policy, including endorsements, as amended from time to time which shall
form a part of the Policy and shall be read together.
49. Policy Period: The period between the Start Date and the Expiry Date as specified in the P olicy Schedule or the date of cancellation of
this Policy, whichever is earlier.
50. Policy Schedule: Schedule attached to and forming part of this Policy mentioning the details of the Insured Persons, the Sum Insured,
the period and the limits to which benefits/Add-ons under the Policy are subject to, including any Annexures and/or endorsements,
made to or on it from time to time, and if more than one, then the latest in time.
51. Policy Year: A Period of 12 consecutive months commencing from the Start Date.
52. Start Date: The inception date of the add-ons specified under this Policy as specified in the Policy Schedule.
53. Waiting Period: Time bound exclusion period related to condition(s) specified in the Policy Schedule or Certificate of Insurance or
Policy which shall be served before a claim related to such condition(s) becomes admissible
54. We/Our/Us means Aditya Birla Health Insurance Company Limited.
55. You/Your/Policyholder means the person named in the Policy Schedule as the policyholder and who has concluded this Policy with Us.

Benefits under Section III are subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions under this Policy, including Base Policy. The Sum Insured and/or the
sub-limit for each Benefit under this Section III shall be as specified against that Benefit in the P olicy Schedule / Product Benefit Table of this
Policy. Payment of the Benefit shall be subject to the availability of the Sum Insured/applicable sub-limit for that Benefit. Our maximum, total and
cumulative liability in respect of an Insured Person for any and all claims arising under a Benefit during the Policy Period for that Insured Person
shall not exceed the Sum Insured/sub-limit specified against the applicable Benefit in the P olicy Schedule /Product Benefit Table of this Policy.
Benefit (a) Super Reload & (b) Surgicash will be available together and cannot be opted separately.
All claims must be made in accordance with the procedure set out in Base Policy in this Policy (as applicable).
a.

Super Reload.
What is covered
If the Base Policy Sum Insured along with accumulated No Claim Bonus (if any), Super No Claim Bonus (if any), is completely exhausted/
insufficient f or covering a claim in a Policy Year under the Base Policy, then We shall provide 100% of the Base Sum Insured specified in the
Policy Schedule/Product benefit table of this policy as a reload, unlimited times for related Illnesses/Injury from the first claim itself. For any
unrelated Illnesses, We shall provide a reload as per Base Policy.
Conditions
(i) A claim shall be admissible under this Benefit only if the claim is admissible in Base Policy under In-patient Hospitalization or Day Care
Treatment or AYUSH Cover or Domiciliary Hospitalization or Home Treatment or Organ Donor Expenses arising in that Policy Year for any
or all Insured Person(s) covered under the Base Policy.
(ii) Our maximum, total and cumulative liability under a single claim under this Benefit shall not be more than the Sum Insured opted under
Base Policy as specified in the Policy Schedule.
(iii) The Super Reload of the Sum Insured shall not be considered while calculating the No Claim Bonus (If any) and/or the Super No Claim
Bonus (if any) available in the Base Policy.
(iv) In case of an Individual Policy, Super Reload of the Sum Insured is available to each Insured Person and can be utilised by Insured
Persons who are covered under the Policy.
(v) In case of a Family Floater Policy, the Super Reload of Sum Insured shall be available on a floater basis for all Insured Persons in the
family that are covered under the Policy.
(vi) If the Super Reload of Sum Insured is not utilised in a Policy Year, it shall not be carried forward to any subsequent Policy Year.
Sequence of Sum Insured Utilisation
The utilisation of Sum Insured opted under this Policy and any limits thereof as applicable across various Benefits shall be as follows:
(i) Base Policy Sum Insured
(ii) Base Policy Accumulated No Claim Bonus (if any)
(iii) Base Policy Accumulated Super No Claim Bonus (if any)
(iv) Base Policy Reload of the Sum Insured (if any)
(v) Super Reload available under ABHI Protect Add-on

In the aforesaid sequence of utilization of Sum Insured, in case the Insured Person has utilized a specific limit or is not eligible for a specific
limit, then the Insured Person may choose to utilize from the next available limit in the foregoing sequence, as may be applicable.
b.

Surgicash
What is covered
If the Insured Person suffers from any Illness/Injury and that Illness/Injury solely and directly results in the Hospitalisation of the Insured
Person to undergo a Surgical Procedure, then we shall pay the fixed benefit amount as specified in the P olicy Schedule/ Product Benefit
Table of this Policy once in a Policy Year over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Conditions
• A claim shall be admissible under this Benefit only if the claim is admissible under In-patient Hospitalization or Day Care Treatment
under the Base Policy arising in that Policy Year.
• In case of an Individual/ Multi Individual Base Policy, this benefit will be paid once against each Insured Person in a Policy Year.
In case of a family Floater Base Policy, this benefit will be paid only once against all insured Persons in a Policy Year.
• The benefit amount will be paid as a lump sum amount post the Insured Person’s discharge from the Hospital.

ABHI Protect Add-on, Product UIN: ADIHLIA22218V012122

III. BENEFIT

IV. WAITING PERIOD

(1)

Pre-Existing Diseases (Code- Excl01)
a) Expenses related to the treatment of a pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct complications shall be excluded until the expiry of
months as specified in the Policy Schedule / Product Benefit Table of this Policy of continuous coverage after the date of inception of
this Add-on policy with Us.
b) In case of enhancement of base policy Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum Insured increase of the base
policy Sum Insured.
c) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the portability norms of the extant IRDAI (Health
Insurance) Regulations, then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage under base policy.
d) Coverage under the policy after the expiry of months as specified in the P olicy Schedule / Product Benefit Table of this Policy for any
pre-existing disease is subject to the same being declared at the time of application and accepted by Insurer.

(2)

Specified disease / procedure waiting period: (Code- Excl02)
a) Expenses related to the treatment of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be excluded until the expiry of 24 months of
continuous coverage after the date of inception of this Add-on policy with Us. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising
due to an accident.
b) In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply a fresh to the extent of Sum Insured increase of Base Policy.
c) If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for pre-existing diseases, then the longer of the two
waiting periods shall apply.
d) The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the policy or declared and accepted without a specific
exclusion.
e) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the applicable norms on portability stipulated by IRDAI,
then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage under base policy.
a) List of specific diseases/procedures:

1

2

3

Body System

Illness

Treatment/ Surgery

Eye

Cataract

Cataract Surgery

Glaucoma

Glaucoma Surgery

Ear Nose Throat

Gynecology

Refractive Error Correction

Correction Surgery

Sinusitis

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Rhinitis

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Tonsillitis & Adenitis

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Tympanitis & Non Traumatic Perforation

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Deviated Nasal Septum

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Otitis Media

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Adenoiditis

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Mastoiditis

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Cholesteatoma

Medical & Surgical Treatment

All Cysts, Mass, Swelling, Lump, Granulomas, Polyps,

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Fibroids & Benign Tumour of the female genito
urinary system

4

Orthopedic /
Rheumatological

Polycystic Ovarian Disease

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Uterine Prolapse

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Fibroids (Fibromyoma)

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Breast lumps (excluding Malignant)

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Dysfunctional Uterine Bleeding (DUB)

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Endometriosis

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Menorrhagia

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Pelvic Inflammatory Disease

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Gout

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Rheumatism, Rheumatoid Arthritis

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Non infective arthritis

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Osteoarthritis

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Osteoporosis

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Prolapse of the intervertebral disc

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Spondilosis, Spondioarthritis, Spondylopathies

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Ankylosing Spondilitis / Spondylopathies

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Psoriatic Arthritis / Arthropathy

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Internal Derangement of Knee / Ligament or Tendon
or Meniscus Tear

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Joint Replacement Surgery

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Non Specific Arthritis

Medical & Surgical Treatment

ABHI Protect Add-on, Product UIN: ADIHLIA22218V012122

All Waiting Periods applied to this Add-on Policy detailed below:

5

6

(3)

Gastroenterology
(Alimentary Canal and
related Organs)

Urogenital (Urinary and
Reproductive system)

7

Skin

8

General Surgery

Stone in Gall Bladder, Bile duct & other parts of
Biliary System

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Cholecystitis

Surgical Treatment

Pancreatitis

Surgical Treatment

Fissure, Fistula in ano, hemorrhoids (piles), Pilonidal
Sinus, Ano-rectal & Perianal Abscess

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Rectal Prolapse

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Gastric or Duodenal Erosions or Ulcers + Gastritis
& Duodenitis & Colitis
Gastro Esophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Cirrhosis

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Chronic Appendicitis

Surgical Treatment

Appendicular lump, Appendicular abscess

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Stones in Urinary system (Stone in the Kidney, Ureter, Medical & Surgical Treatment
Urinary Bladder)
Benign Hypertrophy / Enlargement of Prostate
Medical & Surgical Treatment
(BHP / BEP)
Hernia, Hydrocele,

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Varicocoele / Spermatocoele

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Skin tumour (unless malignant)

Medical & Surgical Treatment

All skin diseases

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Any swelling, tumour, cyst, nodule, ulcer, polyp Mass , Medical & Surgical Treatment
Swelling, Lump, Granulomas, Benign Tumour
anywhere in the body (unless malignant)
Varicose veins, Varicose ulcers

Medical & Surgical Treatment

Internal Congenital Anomaly or internal congenital
diseases

Medical & Surgical Treatment

30-day waiting period (Code- Excl03)
(i) Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within 30 days from the date of inception of this Add-on policy with us shall be
excluded except claims arising due to an accident, provided the same are covered.
(ii) This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has Continuous Coverage for more than twelve months under this Add-on.
(iii) The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced sum insured in the Event of granting higher sum insured
subsequently of the Base Policy.

V. EXCLUSIONS
As per the Base Policy Applied
VI. GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS
1.

Standard General terms & Conditions
1. Disclosure of Information
The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the event of misrepresentation, misdescription or non-disclosure of any material fact by the policyholder.
2. Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability
The terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled by the insured person for the Company to make any payment for claim(s)
arising under the policy.
3. Complete Discharge
Any payment to the policyholder, insured person or his/ her nominees or his/ her legal representative or assignee or to the Hospital, as
the case may be, for any benefit under the policy shall be a valid discharge towards payment of claim by the Company to the extent of
that amount for the particular claim.
4. Multiple Policies
1) In case of multiple policies taken by an insured person during a period from one or more insurers to indemnify treatment costs, the
insured person shall have the right to require a settlement of his/her claim in terms of any of his/her policies. ln all such cases the
insurer chosen by the insured person shall be obliged to settle the claim as long as the claim is within the limits of and according to
the terms of the chosen policy.
2) lnsured person having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims under this policy for the amounts disallowed under
any other policy / policies even if the sum insured is not exhausted. Then the insurer shall independently settle the claim subject to
the terms and conditions of this policy.
3) lf the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum insured under a single policy, the insured person shall have the right to choose insurer
from whom he/she wants to claim the balance amount.
4) Where an insured person has policies from more than one insurer to cover the same risk on indemnity basis, the insured person
shall only be indemnified the treatment costs in accordance with the terms and conditions of the chosen policy.
5. Fraud
lf any claim made by the insured person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or declaration is made or used in support
thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are used by the insured person or anyone acting on his/her behalf to obtain any benefit
under this policy, all benefits under this policy and the premium paid shall be forfeited.

ABHI Protect Add-on, Product UIN: ADIHLIA22218V012122

IV

Any amount already paid against claims made under this policy but which are found fraudulent later shall be repaid by all recipient(s)/
policyholder(s), who has made that particular claim, who shall be jointly and severally liable for such repayment to the insurer.
For the purpose of this clause, the expression "fraud" means any of the following acts committed by the insured person or by his agent
or the hospital/doctor/any other party acting on behalf of the insured person, with intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer
to issue an insurance policy:
a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured person does not believe to be true;
b) the active concealment of a fact by the insured person having knowledge or belief of the fact;
c) any other act fitted to deceive; and
d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent
The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the policy benefits on the ground of Fraud, if the insured person /
beneficiary can pr ove that the misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to suppress
the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer.
6. Cancellation
1. Cancellation by You
The policyholder may cancel this policy by giving 15 days written notice and in such an event, the Company shall refund premium
for the unexpired policy period as detailed below
Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no refunds of premium shall be made in respect of Cancellation where, any
claim has been admitted or has been lodged or any benefit has been availed by the insured person under the policy.
In force Period-Up to

Refund
1 Year

2 Year

3 Year

1 Month

75.00%

85.00%

90.00%

3 months

50.00%

75.00%

85.00%

6 months

25.00%

60.00%

75.00%

12 months

50.00%

60.00%

15 months

30.00%

50.00%

18 months

20.00%

35.00%

NIL

15.00%

24 months
30 months

NIL

30.00%

30+ months

NIL

2. Automatic Cancellation:
a. Individual & Family Policy: The Policy shall automatically terminate on the death of all Insured Persons.
b. Refund: A refund in accordance with the grid above shall be payable if there is an automatic cancellation of the Policy provided
that no claim has been filed under the Policy by or on behalf of any Insured Person.
3. Cancellation by Us:
The Company may cancel the policy at any time on grounds of misrepresentation non-disclosure of material facts, fraud by the
insured person by giving 15 days' written notice. There would be no refund of premium on cancellation on grounds of
misrepresentation, non-disclosure of material facts or fraud.
7. Migration
The insured person will have the option to migrate the policy to other health insurance products/plans offered by the company by
applying for migration of the policy at least 30 days before the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. lf such
person is presently covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses under any health insurance product plan offered by
the company, the insured person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on migration.
For Detailed Guidelines on migration, kindly refer the link
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987&flag=1]
8. Portability
The insured person will have the option to port the policy to other insurers by applying to such insurer to port the entire policy along
with all the members of the family, if any, at least 45 days before, but not earlier than 60 days from the policy renewal date as per IRDAI
guidelines related to portability. lf such person is presently covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses under any
health insurance policy with an lndian General/Health insurer, the proposed insured person will get the accrued continuity benefits in
waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on portability.
For Detailed Guidelines on portability, kindly refer the link
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987&flag=1]
9. Renewal of Policy
The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on grounds of fraud, misrepresentation by the insured person.
i. The Company shall endeavour to give notice for renewal. However, the Company is not under obligation to give any notice for
renewal.
ii. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the insured person had made a claim or claims in the preceding policy years.
iii. Request for renewal along with requisite premium shall be received by the Company before the end of the policy period.
iv. At the end of the policy period, the policy shall terminate and can be renewed within the Grace Period of 30 days to maintain
continuity of benefits without br eak in policy. Coverage is not available during the grace period.
v. No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience.
10. Withdrawal of Policy
i. ln the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the insured person about the same 90 days
prior to expiry of the policy.
ii. Insured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product available with the Company at the time of renewal
with all the accrued continuity benefits such as No claim bonus, waiver of waiting period. as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the
policy has been maintained without a break.

ABHI Protect Add-on, Product UIN: ADIHLIA22218V012122

IV

11. Moratorium Period
After completion of eight continuous years under this Policy no look back would be applied. This period of eight years is called as
‘Moratorium Period’. The moratorium would be applicable for the Sums Insured of the first Policy with US and subsequently completion
of eight continuous years would be applicable from date of enhancement of Sum Insured only on the enhanced limits. After the expiry
of Moratorium Period no claim under this Policy shall be contestable except for proven fraud and permanent exclusions specified in the
Policy. The Policy would however be subject to all limits, sub limits, co-payments, deductibles as per the terms and conditions of the
Policy.
12. Premium Payment in instalments
lf the insured person has opted for Payment of Premium on an instalment basis i.e. Half Yearly, Quarterly or Monthly, as mentioned in
the policy Schedule/Certificate of lnsurance, the following Conditions shall apply (notwithstanding any terms contrary elsewhere in the
policy)
i. Grace Period of 15 days would be given to pay the instalment premium due for the policy.
ii. During such grace period, coverage will not be available from the due date of instalment premium till the date of receipt of premium
by Company.
iii. The insured person will get the accrued continuity benefit in respect of the "Waiting Periods", "Specific Waiting Periods" in the
event of payment of premium within the stipulated grace Period.
iv. No interest will be charged lf the instalment premium is not paid on due date
v. ln case of instalment premium due not received within the grace period, the policy will get cancelled.
vi. ln the event of a claim, all subsequent premium instalments shall immediately become due and payable.
vii. The company has the right to recover and deduct all the pending instalments from the claim amount due under the policy.
13. Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Policy including the Premium Rates
The Company, with prior approval of lRDAl, may revise or modify the terms of the policy including the premium rates. The insured
person shall be notified three months before the changes are effected.
14. Free Look Period
The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new individual health insurance policies and not on renewals or at the time of porting/
migrating the policy. The insured person shall be allowed free look period of fifteen days (30 days in case of contracts with a ter m of 3
years, offered over distance marketing mode) from date of receipt of the policy document to review the terms and conditions of the
policy, and to return the same if not acceptable.
lf the insured has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the insured shall be entitled to a refund of the premium paid less
any expenses incurred by the Company on medical examination of the insured person and the stamp duty charges or where the risk has
already commenced and the option of return of the policy is exercised by the insured person, a deduction towards the proportionate risk
premium for period of cover or Where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate premium
commensurate with the insurance coverage during such period;
15. Redressal Procedure
In case of a grievance, You can contact Us with the details through:
Our website: https://www.adityabirlahealth.com/healthinsurance
Toll Free : 1800 270 7000
Email: care.healthinsurance@adityabirla.com
Address: Aditya Birla Health Insurance Co. Limited 9th Floor, Tower 1, One World Centre, Jupiter Mills Compound, 841, Senapati
Bapat Marg, Elphinstone Road, Mumbai 400013
lnsured Person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the company's branches with the details of grievance
lf lnsured Person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through one of the above methods, insured person may contact the
grievance officer .
For updated details of grievance officer, kindly r efer the link https://www.adityabirlacapital.com/healthinsurance/#!/homepage
For senior citizens, please contact Our respective branch office or call at 1800 270 7000 or wr ite an e- mail at
seniorcitizen.abh@adityabirla.com
The Insured Person/Policyholder can also walk-in and approach the grievance cell at any of Our branches. If in case the Insured
Person/Policyholder is not satisfied with the response then they can contact Our Head of Customer Service at the following email
headcustomercare.abh@adityabirla.com
If Insured Person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through above methods, the Insured Person may also approach the
office of Insurance Ombudsman of the r espective area/region for redressal of grievance as per Insurance Ombudsman Rules 2017.
The contact details of the Ombudsman offices ar e provided on Our website and in this Policy at Annexure III.
Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI lntegrated Grievance Management System - https://www.igms.irdai.gov.in/
16. Nomination
The Policyholder is required at the inception of the Policy to make a nomination for the purpose of payment of claims under the Policy
in the event of death of the Policyholder. Any change of nomination shall be communicated to the Company in writing and such change
shall be effective only when an endorsement on the Policy is made. ln the event of death of the Policyholder, the Company will pay the
Nominee {as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy Certificate/Endorsement (if any)} and in case there is no subsisting Nominee, to the
legal heirs or legal representatives of the Policyholder whose discharge shall be treated as full and final discharge of the Company’s
liability under the Policy.
17. Claim Settlement (provision for Penal interest)
i. The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document.
ii. ln the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the policyholder from the date of
receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of claim at a rate 2% above the bank rate.
iii. However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion of the Company, it shall initiate and complete
such investigation at the earliest, in any case not later than 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document. ln such
cases, the Company shall settle or reject the claim within 45 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document.

ABHI Protect Add-on, Product UIN: ADIHLIA22218V012122

IV

IV

iv. ln case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the policyholder at a rate 2% above the
bank rate from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of claim.
(Explanation: "Bank rate" shall mean the rate fixed by the Reserve Bank of lndia (RBl) at the beginning of the financial year in which
claim has fallen due)

2.

Specific General terms & Conditions
18. Material Change
Material information to be disclosed includes every matter that You are aware of, or could reasonably be expected to know, that relates
to questions in the Proposal Form and which is relevant to Us in order to accept the risk of insurance. You must exercise the same duty
to disclose those matters to Us before the Renewal, extension, variation, or endorsement of the contract. The Policy terms and
conditions shall not be altered.
19. Alterations in the Policy
This Policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. No change or alteration shall be valid or effective or valid unless approved in
writing by Us, which approval shall be evidenced by a written endorsement, signed and stamped by Us.
20. No Constructive Notice
Any knowledge or information of any circumstance or condition in relation to the Policyholder/Insured Person which is in Our
possession and not specifically informed by the Policyholder / Insured Person shall not be held to bind or prejudicially affect Us
notwithstanding subsequent acceptance of any premium.

22. Grace Period
The Policy may be Renewed by mutual consent and in such event the Renewal premium should be paid to Us on or before the expiry
date of the Policy and in no case later than the Grace Period of 30 days from the expiry date. We shall not be liable to pay for any claim
arising out of an Illness/Injury/ Accident that occurred during the Grace Period. The provisions of Section 64VB of the Insurance Act
1938 shall be applicable. All policies Renewed within the Grace Period shall be eligible for continuity of cover. If the Policy is not
Renewed within the Grace Period then We may agree to issue a fresh Policy subject to Our underwriting guidelines and no continuity of
benefits shall be available from the expired Policy.
23. Communications & Notices
Any communication or notice or instruction under this Policy shall be in writing and will be sent to:
(i) The Policyholder’s, at the address/ E-mail ID as specified in the Policy Schedule/Proposal form or provided to Us by the
Policyholder / Insured Person
(ii) To Us, at the address specified in the Schedule.
(iii) No insurance agents, brokers, other person or entity is authorised to receive any notice on The behalf of Us unless explicitly stated
in writing by Us.
24. Electronic Transactions
The Policyholder and the Insured agree to adhere and comply with all such terms and conditions of electronic transactions as We may
prescribe from time to time, and hereby agrees and confirms that all transactions effected by or through facilities for conducting
remote transactions including the internet, World Wide Web, electronic data interchange, call centres, tele-service operations (whether
voice, video, data or combination thereof) or by means of electronic, computer, automated machines network or through other means
of telecommunication, established by or on behalf of Us, for and in respect of the Policy or its terms, or Our other products and
services, shall constitute legally binding and valid transactions when done in adherence to and in compliance with Our terms and
conditions for such facilities, as may be prescribed from time to time. Sales through such electronic transactions shall ensure that all
conditions of Section 41 of the Insurance Act, 1938 prescribed for the proposal form and all necessary disclosures on terms and
conditions and exclusions are made known to the Policyholder. A voice recording in case of tele-sales or other evidence for sales
through the Internet shall be maintained and such consent shall be subsequently validated / confirmed by the Policyholder.
25. Policy Dispute
Any dispute concerning the interpretation of the terms, conditions, limitations and/or exclusions contained herein shall be governed by
Indian law and shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the Indian Courts.
26. Assignment
As per Base Policy
27. Territorial Jurisdiction
All benefits are available in India only and all claims shall be payable in India in Indian Rupees only.

VII. OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS
All claims must be made in accordance with the procedure set out in Base Policy unless otherwise stated and covered in Section III of these Policy
terms and conditions.
Aditya Birla Health Insurance Co. Limited. IRDAI Reg.153. CIN No. U66000MH2015PLC263677.
Product Name: ABHI Protect Add-on, Product UIN: ADIHLIA22218V012122
Address: 9th Floor, Tower 1, One World Centre, Jupiter Mills Compound, 841, Senapati Bapat Marg, Elphinstone Road,
Mumbai 400013. Email: care.healthinsurance@adityabirlacapital.com, Website: adityabirlahealthinsurance.com,
Telephone: 1800 270 7000. Trademark/Logo Aditya Birla Capital is owned by Aditya Birla Management Corporation
Private Limited and Trademark/logo HealthReturns, Healthy Heart Score and Active Dayz are owned by Momentum
Metropolitan Life Limited (Formerly known as MMI Group Limited). These trademark/Logos are being used by Aditya
Birla Health Insurance Co. Limited under licensed user agreement(s).

Contact us:
1800 270 7000

ABHI Protect Add-on, Product UIN: ADIHLIA22218V012122

21. Records to be maintained
You or the Insured Person, as the case may be shall keep an accurate record containing all relevant medical records and shall allow Us or
Our representative(s) to inspect such records. You or the Insured Person as the case may be, shall furnish such information as may be
required by Us under this Policy at any time during the Policy Period and up to three years after the Policy expiration, or until final
adjustment (if any) and resolution of all claims under this Policy.
